README.md, before:

# filesystem_spec

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/intake/filesystem_spec.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/martindurant/filesystem_spec)
[![Docs](https://readthedocs.org/projects/filesystem-spec/badge/?version=latest)](https://filesystem-spec.readthedocs.io/en/latest/?badge=latest)

A specification for pythonic filesystems.

## Install

```bash
pip install fsspec
```
or
```bash
conda install -c conda-forge fsspec
```

## Purpose

To produce a template or specification for a file-system interface, that specific implementations should follow,
so that applications making use of them can rely on a common behaviour and not have to worry about the specific
internal implementation decisions with any given backend. Many such implementations are included in this package,
or in sister projects such as `s3fs` and `gcsfs`.

In addition, if this is well-designed, then additional functionality, such as a key-value store or FUSE
mounting of the file-system implementation may be available for all implementations "for free".

## Documentation

Please refer to [RTD](https://filesystem-spec.readthedocs.io/en/latest/?badge=latest)

## Develop

### Code Formatting

Filesystem_spec uses [Black](https://black.readthedocs.io/en/stable) to ensure
a consistent code format throughout the project. ``black`` can be installed
with `pip install black` or `conda install black`.

Then, run `black fsspec` from the root of the filesystem_spec repository to
auto-format your code. Additionally, many editors have plugins that will apply
`black` as you edit files.

Optionally, you may wish to setup [pre-commit hooks](https://pre-commit.com) to
automatically run `black` when you make a git commit. This can be done by
installing pre-commit via `pip install pre-commit` or `conda install
pre-commit`.

Then, run `pre-commit install --install-hooks` from the root of the
filesystem_spec repository to setup pre-commit hooks. `black` will now be run
before you commit, reformatting any changed files. You can format without
committing via `pre-commit run` or skip these checks with `git commit
--no-verify`.

Commit message:

Add testing overview to README.md

README.md, after:

# filesystem_spec

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/intake/filesystem_spec.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/martindurant/filesystem_spec)
[![Docs](https://readthedocs.org/projects/filesystem-spec/badge/?version=latest)](https://filesystem-spec.readthedocs.io/en/latest/?badge=latest)

A specification for pythonic filesystems.

## Install

```bash
pip install fsspec
```
or
```bash
conda install -c conda-forge fsspec
```

## Purpose

To produce a template or specification for a file-system interface, that specific implementations should follow,
so that applications making use of them can rely on a common behaviour and not have to worry about the specific
internal implementation decisions with any given backend. Many such implementations are included in this package,
or in sister projects such as `s3fs` and `gcsfs`.

In addition, if this is well-designed, then additional functionality, such as a key-value store or FUSE
mounting of the file-system implementation may be available for all implementations "for free".

## Documentation

Please refer to [RTD](https://filesystem-spec.readthedocs.io/en/latest/?badge=latest)

## Develop

fsspec uses [tox](https://tox.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) and
[tox-conda](https://github.com/tox-dev/tox-conda) to manage dev and test
environments. First, install conda with tox and tox-conda in a base environment
(eg. `conda install -c conda-forge tox tox-conda`). Calls to `tox` can then be
used to configure a development environment and run tests.

First, setup a development conda environment via `tox -e dev`. This will
install fspec dependencies, test & dev tools, and install fsspec in develop
mode. Then, activate the dev environment under `.tox/dev` via `conda activate .tox/dev`.

### Testing

Tests can be run directly in the activated dev environment via `pytest fsspec`.

The full fsspec test suite can be run via `tox`, which will setup and execute
tests against multiple dependency versions in isolated environment. Run `tox
-av` to list available test environments, select environments via `tox -e <env>`.

The full fsspec suite requires a system-level docker, docker-compose, and fuse
installation. See `ci/install.sh` for a detailed installation example.

### Code Formatting

fsspec uses [Black](https://black.readthedocs.io/en/stable) to ensure
a consistent code format throughout the project. ``black`` is automatically
installed in the tox dev env, activated via `conda activate .tox/dev`.

Then, run `black fsspec` from the root of the filesystem_spec repository to
auto-format your code. Additionally, many editors have plugins that will apply
`black` as you edit files.

Optionally, you may wish to setup [pre-commit hooks](https://pre-commit.com) to
automatically run `black` when you make a git commit. ``black`` is automatically
installed in the tox dev env, activated via `conda activate .tox/dev`.

Then, run `pre-commit install --install-hooks` from the root of the
filesystem_spec repository to setup pre-commit hooks. `black` will now be run
before you commit, reformatting any changed files. You can format without
committing via `pre-commit run` or skip these checks with `git commit
--no-verify`.
